---
published: false
---
Hugo 

#Hugo
Hugo is a static site generator that builds pages when you create or update any of the content. This is different compared to other systems that will build the page the moment the request is made. Some positives are that Hugo is fast and secure and can be hosted in a variety of places. Some examples being amazon web service, azure, goDaddy, github, gitlab and more… Some good uses for hugo are those who are creating a business and would like to have portfolios. It can also be a good spot to create your own blogs, company sites. Hugo is good since it does not require the use of databases, and it is for people who prefer writing on a text editor rather than a browser.

## Static sites
Some great benefits from using hugo is that this static site generator increases performance, security, and ease of use. Hugo caches the page and it is completely rendered on the user's computer before you choose to upload it to the http server. Compared to a dynamic site a static site uses way less memory and cpu usage when loading up the same amount of pages.


**Ubuntu install**


Sudo apt-get install hugo
This command installs hugo

sudo hugo version 
To see if it installed 

**theme install**
sudo apt-get update

Sudo apt-get install git

sudo git clone–recursive https://github.com/spf13/hugoThemes ~/themes
 This will clone the this theme repository 

**Start Hugo**

sudo mkdir hugo-websites
Create a directory called hugo-websites
cd hugo-websites
Go into that directory

hugo newsite test-page

This command will create the site called test-page

cd test-page
Go into the test page directory 
sudo ls 
Will show archetypes config.tomlcontent data layouts static themes

sudo hugo 
This will have a quick preview of the site and that's it hugo is set up.




## A New Post

Enter text in [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/). Use the toolbar above, or click the **?** button for formatting help.
