---
layout: post
title: 'Blog 1 Linux '
date: '2021-09-11 22:15:25 -0700'
categories: jekyll update
published: true
---
#Linux

## Brief history of Linux 
---
Linux is another OS just like windows that can be used on smartphones, computers, home appliances, cars, as well as industrial servers. Linux was created in 1991 by a Finnish software engineer who wanted to create another OS similar to MINIX but with way fewer restrictions. Linux now is used on popular smartphones with the OS being Android which is a modified Linux kernel. 
___

**Why Use it?**
* Linux is entirely Free with no license fees/renews
* Linux is Open source can use it whenever and can distribute it freely
* Linux has different _flavors_ for specific needs 
	* Red hat 
    * Ubuntu server
    * Centos

    
 
## Commands and Options

Linux is comprised of many commands that will help navigate the terminal which is will be used to make any administrative tasks. On top of the commands, Linux has options within the command that is used to control the output. 

- Ls command\
	`ls ` This Linux command will list files and folders inside the directory currently in. 
 	- `ls -a` The added A is an option that can be added to the list command that will show all files hidden or not.

- cd command\
`cd` this command will you able to change the directory to another directory, the following command\
  **cd /home**  will change the user into the home directory.

- cp command\
`cp` command will copy a file into another file with the proper syntax 
`cp file1.txt file2.txt` This command will copy fil1 into file2 if there is no file 2 then file2 will be created.
	- `cp -i` adding the -i option will ask the user again to double check if they wish to copy the files instead of just running the command without any warning.

- mkdir command
`mkdir newfile` this command will create a new directory called newfile

- rm command 
`rm -r newfile` this command will remove files and directories, the `-r` option will remove any directories that are non empty, newfile is the directory or file that you wish to be removed.
`rm -i newfile` this other option will prompt the user to confirm if they wish to delete the file 
 _____
 ## Linux conclusion 
 Linux has other commands within the system but these were basic ones as well as some of the options associated with Linux.
