---
published: true
---
# Brief history of netsuite

Netsuite was created in 1998 as was the world’s first provider to produce and deliver business applications over the internet.  Netsuite was acquired by oracle in 2016 and today it is able to provide cloud based financial services and as well as enterprise resource planning (ERP) It is currently the number one ERP cloud provider with over 27,000 customers. Netsuite is currently hosted in over 200 different countries as well as native support in 27 different languages

**What is netsuite ERP**

Netsuite ERP provides a cloud based business management software that will help automate core business essentials. The cloud services will provide real time performance as well as financial performance. Netsuite is useful for inventory management, production, order processing, creation of customers, and chain suppliers. With all the control netsuite provides many companies can choose whether to have their business strict or lenient as they wish.

**Example to create an expenditure cycle in netsuite.**

An expenditure cycle consists of the purchasing of goods and services, the creation of the liabilities of the goods and liabilities to create a way to pay for the goods and services
Steps
- First create a requisition 
- Create a purchase order based on that requisition 
- Issue a purchase order
- Receive the merchandise that is based off the purchase order
- Then create a vendor invoice for the goods
- Processing the vendor invoice, that must include a 3 way matching PO, receiver and invoice 
- Lastly end with paying the invoice 

Netsuite allows for the creation of expense cycles to be done in a simple task from their dashboard. Most of the required steps will follow up on each other and sync over. The creation of the requisition and purchase order must be done in order and netsuite will help solve this by having clearly defined parts where the user would only need to just input the data. The process of paying is a simple task as it only requires checking a box of the corresponding invoice order. Afterwards it will allow the user to input the bank details and date to send the payment for the following invoice. This completes the process of creating an expenditure cycle in netsuite.
