---
published: true
---


# AWS History
In 2002 AWS was first launched as software for developers to be able to add any features from amazon to their own site. A few years later in 2006 AWS launched as a cloud service provider. Now in present day time AWS has launched up to 100 different services to choose from and is used by almost 50% of the global market. Amazon provides computing power, the use of databases, networking and allowing for content to be stored. 



## Why use it?
For starters, to keep pricing competitive AWS uses a system of only paying for the services you actually use during the month so pricing will differ monthly. AWS can be used to run a business online with some prime examples being able to upscale or downscale. This is good to allow for more computing power for a server during high peak times then downscale during off peak. Another prime example is how secure AWS is with having end to end privacy. AWS can be used like legos with how flexible the service is. You can pick the type of OS to use programming language as well as the database type. AWs can be used to create a brand application from scratch all the way to the finish line. This can be done using virtual machines, containers, or serverless coding such as AWS Lambda. AWS can store any user data into a database which AWS does provide as well. If your business ever got very successful there are ways to network around with one service example being Amazon VPC.


**Storage types**
- Amazon s3
- EBS
-  Amazon Elastic File storage
- Amazon FSX

**Amazon Databases**
- Amazon RDS
- Amazon DynamoDB
- Amazon Redshift
- Amazon Aurora

**Amazon Computing services**
- Amazon elastic compute cloud (EC2)
- Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS)
- AWS Lambda
- AWS outposts

**Networking and Content Delivery**
- Amazon VPC
- Amazon Route 53
- Amazon API Gateway
- Elastic Load Balancing
