---
published: true
---
## AZURE


 Microsoft Azure is public and private cloud platform similar to AWS where there are over 200 different products and cloud services offered. Azure would let you create, run and manage applications on the cloud for your company/personal interests. Even though this is a microsoft product it is not exclusively built for windows users and can be run using different open source technology. Azure is very secure and follows all levels of trust and regulatory compliance. Good thing about creating an account with Azure is in the first month there is a free $200 credit to use. Many major companies use Azure to power their business with some big names being walmart, fedex, HP.

Azure is a pay as you use service just like AWS which can help reduce costs when using this cloud platform. Some other neat features in terms of the billing is you can add costume billing notifications to send an email notification if your specific budget is moving up, close, and over budget. On top of that you can create virtual machines on azure such as a linux or windows based system. Under the insights tab the virtual machine can be monitored there and can give information on how much usage the system is using. Azure can be able to set up different roles to give access to other users besides yourself to have access to the resources. SQL implementation can be added which are helpful for businesses to improve, manage their data on the database.

**Pros**

- azure has great speed which can allow teams can create and launch an application quickly
- The service is flexible pay only what you use
- Security is top notch as microsofts has invested over billion dollars to protect businesses from any cybersecurity threats

**Cons**

- Must be managed to ensure system is running smoothly 
- Microsoft support may not be up to par 
- Pricing can at times be difficult to calculate depending on how large data transfers are
