---
published: true
---
##Bitcoin

Cryptocurrencies are a new method that can help revolutionize the world in its current technological boom. With one popular one being bitcoin, the first ever cryptocurrency to be a decentralized virtual asset. Created by Satoshi Nakamoto, whose identity was never revealed, was the inventor of bitcoin in 2009. With this asset only reaching a few cents at launch it is now worth over 60,000 usd as of 11/12/21 and still growing. 
	

    
Since many other cryptocurrencies now exist besides bitcoin we stick with bitcoins main goal of what it does. Bitcoin is a digital currency that has chosen a new path of payment methods without the use of a centralized network. With bitcoin being decentralized it relies on peer to peer software where all public ledgers of bitcoin are held on servers worldwide. This method is known as the blockchain where bitcoin can be distributed, traded and stored as a digital asset. The way bitcoin can be created is by bitcoin mining which involves computers to solve complex math equations. Mining is also the way in which transactions can be confirmed within the blockchain. While mining, the miners are awarded bitcoin for their efforts which can later be traded or just held. Bitcoin isn't infinite though as it is capped at 21 million coins which makes this a finite resource but will take decades for it to be fully exhausted. 

**Positives**


    
-This digital currency is self governed without any government interference.
-The biggest positive is that it is decentralized  where this method will help regulate and prevent any monopolies.
-Big gains of money can be earned from cryptocurrency compared to regular stocks which is why it may be referred as the gold rush 
-Crypto currency is secure as long as your wallet is locked with a good enough password.
-Can be traded easily on popular apps such as coinbase, binance, or crypto.com

**Negatives**


	
    
-Cybersecuirty is an issue where your wallet can be hacked and lose all digital assets
-The price volatility can fluctuate greatly within just a few minutes 
-There are no regulations set or very minor which can lead to high amounts of cyber crime and monder laundering
-The way payment works are still too slow compared to debit/credit cards where it is almost instant.
