---
published: true
---
##Brief history of CSS

This is another programming language that can be used in HTML to make the presentation more visually appealing. It is good to pair html which is a markup language with CSS (style sheet language) to help present the page. CSS is practically used in about all the main big industry websites alongside with javascript so the big trio combined is html, css, javascript. You can define the website with unique styles, designs, specific layouts as well as custom screens depending on the use of a mobile device or personal computer. 

**Usage of CSS**

CSS can be used inside the same HTML page or written on its own page. Some neat features to do are changing the background color of certain parts of the page or the whole page in general. One way to do this will be by having to define <style> </style> inside the html code, usually near the top of the page. The following code shows how to change the body, h1,h2 and p tags. Now lets go over some of the simple code. The body part changes the background color to light blue and the syntax in the beginning must be set but there can be different ways to define the color blue. You can type out just the color name, hexadecimal value to it or the rgb numbers. You can also change each individual header tag. The following code will change the header1 tag to have a color black and to have it centered in the page. Of course you can pick a different side of the screen by having the header2 have a color set to green and the text moved to the right of the page. There are other ways to play around with CSS by having certain classes of the html be affected by it instead of having it set as a global change by using h1, h2, body in the CSS. A class can be set in html to only change certain aspects of the page. An example is written in the code below by having a class called test in the div tag. The CSS can call this class by using the same name given in in html and the example provided will change the background of that area to be set to red. Other more advanced features can be done using CSS for example having to create a navigation bar set to the top or just changing the shape of the image to have a circular shape like a profile pic….

**Example code**

~~~
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<style>
.test {
  background-color: red;
}

body {
  background-color: lightblue;
}

h1 {
  color: black;
  text-align: center
  ;
}
h2
{
 color: green;
  text-align: right
}

p {
  font-family: verdana;
  font-size: 16px;
  color: blue;
}
</style>
</head>
<body>

<h1>My  CSS Example</h1>
<h2> hello </h2>
<p>This is a paragraph.</p>

<div class="test">
  <p>Test text.</p>
  <p>CSS blog for cit 480.</p>
</div>


</body>
</html>
~~~


