---
published: true
---
## HTML

HTML is a hyper text markup language  that is a web based language that will communicate with the browser to determine the layout of the webpage. HTML basically used for all websites on the internet. This language was created in 1993 and has had various updates throughout the years. Now the current version of HTML is HTML 5 which has made vast improvements from its previous generation.

**Where to write** 
HTML is easy to learn compared to most other coding languages out there and can be created on many different apps, and cloud based websites. One useful site is glitch.com where you can be able to host your own website and create your own html code. This site offers simplicity by giving a live feed on how the website will look on side as well as easy to manage different projects. Being able to learn how to write html will be able to have major benefit if you are looking to create web design for marketing.   https://glitch.com/

**Design**
HTML is broken into tags, elements and attributes 
Tags are used to hold html elements, and are opened with <> and closed with </>
- Elements are inside the tags and it is what controls the structure of the website.
- Attributes are found only inside the starting tag and will add additional properties to html element 
- Element examples are  <p> this is a test. </p>
- The P element is what allows for the user to create a paragraph within the tags.
- Attribute example are <a href=”https://google.com”> Google</a>
- The href inside the tags is what is considered the attribute.
- The following code is a basic HTML website that only has a paragraph and header
``` html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>This is a Test Title</title>`
  </head>
  <body>
    <p>This is a paragraph element!</p>
  </body>
</html>
```

HTML can be improved with other languages such as javascript and CSS. These two are what major websites use to help improve visually and add more details to the site instead of having a plain blank empty site.The next blog will help build on HTML using CSS that can help make a site visually appear better
