---
published: true
---
## Update 3

In the last project update there was an implementation of creating the player ship along with having the user be able to move with the left and right arrow keys. Also a function was added to update the canvas every frame to show the movement of the ship. The next step that was added was ensuring the game canvas has a border to not have the player ship be able to go off the screen. The function uses two if statements by having the most right hand side of the screen compare with the ships coords and to not allow it move past. The same goes with the left if the x cords attempt to pass 0 it will deny this request and just keep returning the ship to 0, basically nullifying its movement. Basic shooting mechanics were also added in this update. First the const key variable is defined as the “space key” which will be used to trigger the lasers. This was done by adding another if statement where the movement key is being checked. A new function was also created which actually creates the laser and as well adds the laser to the array. The second new function added will actually move the laser upwards. This is done by going through the laser array and subtracting the y coords which will constantly update the new cords until it reaches the top of the screen. The last update is adding more to the key pressed and released function to add the laser state to either be false or true depending if the space bar is hit. In the next blog Enemies are the next major update which will be completed by the end of the new week.
