---
published: false
---
## Tesla

In the era of booming technology it is now time to start looking into an electric vehicle. Tesla, a fairly new mainstream car company, has now become the biggest car company in the world. Tesla’s market cap exceeded a trillion where it takes the top 5 auto maker’s combined market cap to reach teslas. With demand being so high it is taking the company almost a year to fulfill consumers orders. Of course the biggest thing Tesla offers is their fully electric cars along with the tech brought to the car that no automaker has done. 

**Why own a tesla**

Tesla runs purely on electricity compared to combustion engines, because of this there are less moving parts that can cause failure so there is less maintenance required. The cost to recharge an electric vehicle is cheaper and better for the environment. Some of the major benefits are the tech inside the car. Tesla offers those to use media platforms such as youtube, Netflix, internet, Video games. One of Tesla's biggest achievements is trying to implement full self driving for all their cars which is a computer chip capable of AI. This software currently in beta will allow drivers to have their car be able to navigate on its own such as speeding up, changing lanes, and driving on both street and highway roads. If fully implemented this will make the car more safer than a human driver, but at its current state they claim that it is already safer than human driver as it has achieved many scenarios of avoiding/preventing collisions Since this company is still improving they are currently in the works of developing new battery chemistry (4680) that will not only improve the range and efficiency but is half the price to produce than current electric ev batteries.

