---
published: false
---
## Update 5

 
The next project update consists of having added the enemies along them able to shoot and the basic fundemntlas on how the game will end. The first step in adding the const states of how many  enemies there will be along with setting the width pixel of the enemies being 50. Kind of similar on how the player was created the enemy function will pull from the images to create the element, set the size and update it to the array as there will be multiple enemies. Another function will be created to make the enemies be able to move in the circular motion which is done by running in a for loop. Another function is also created to set the rows of enemies and will run off the array to pull from this and will place in the corresponding x and y coords. The next added step was adding a hitbox for both the player and enemy which can be able to check for any laser collisions.  In the function that moves the laser another for loop will be added in there to see if both the laser hitbox and enemy ship collide. If this is true it then remove the enemy from that location and from the array. The enemy laser uses the same mechanics as the player but will have a random cooldown to trigger this event. To ensure not all shoot at the same time all enemies will go off a random number cooldown. The way to delete the laser will check the y location of the enemy laser and to remove it once it hits the bottom of the canvas. The next steps needed will be to add a victory condition and lose condition for this game. As well as be able to implement this game into our website instead of it being run on localhost.
