---
published: true
---
## HCI 

**What is human computer interaction?**

In the past, computers used to be huge and difficult to use which only those with the proper training would be able to comprehend. As time passed on and technology improved, so did the need to make computers more accessible to everyday people; this is where Human Computer interaction came to play. 



As the name states, human computer interaction or HCI for short is a term used to describe how a human can interact with a computer. One of the many ways that helped pave this was the addition of a user interface for the person to be able to use. An example of using an interface of everyday life would be practically everything we do, such as opening the door, driving the car, TV remote controller, along with a light switch. All of these interfaces are in place to complete the objective efficiently, but there are cases where the interface can lead to an improper design, making the task even more frustrating or difficult. 

**Improper Design examples**

- Bad TV remote; Excess of buttons are hard to locate/differentiate what each function does.
- Toilet urinals that are too close together 
- One major design flaw was the new Windows 8 UI which forced mouse and keyboard users to use the device as if it was a touch screen device. 
- The device achieves nothing but frustration and is not easy to learn or remember. 

**Proper design examples and the future**

The modern keyboard and mouse are excellent examples as most everyday people use them, and it is made to use both our hands to the point our memory can pinpoint precisely what key to stroke for typing as one example. The modern mouse also fits the hand perfectly in mouse cases to provide ease of comfort and easy to manage the clicks and scroll all in one hand. The innovation of the touchscreen device was a huge success as Apple created a design to use the fingertips as a conductor to trigger the circuit. The iPhone's tremendous success comes from the many features that made using the device naturally, as swiping left and right mimics that of how you can change the page of a book. Many companies have started to follow the UI design of the iPhone, and one has chosen to put this design similar to an automobile. The Hot tech/Car company Tesla has revolutionized just how a car can become just a technology advanced as a computer. This electric car mimics an iPad due to the large touchscreen display where all functions for the car can be managed. This car, still new and improving, can control AC, radio, Locks, adjusting mirrors, navigation, browsing the internet, and many more… 

In conclusion, technology is still improving: with advanced AI coming into play, VR headsets becoming a reality for gaming and media usage, along with AR with Microsoft hololens, which
can help businesses complete tasks. All these devices require good HCI/UX design for them to function and sell to the public that the world is now resolving using all these devices.
