---
published: true
---
## Project update 4

In the Last update of the project basic shooting mechanics were implemented when pressing the space bar to trigger to shoot. But in this week update for the group project we have added two major points to the game. The first one being adding a laser cooldown to the to player spaceship as currently there is no limit on how many lasers can be shot per second. A new constant state was added named cooldown which will have a default value set to 0 as this means the player can be able to shoot the first laser with no delay. We needed to update one of the previous functions to add an and statement being if(state.shooting && state.cooldown == 0). There will now be two conditions that must pass to allow the user to be able to shoot. Once this occurs then the cooldown will get a new value of 40. To decrement this new value all back down to 0; inside the same function another if statement will be checking if the cooldown is greater than 0 and constantly reduce it by .5. The second addition is a way to delete the laser that go off screen as the old mechanics had no way of actually removing the laser so it will constantly be in memory which is bad design. In the function where the laser is being moved upwards a new if statement was added to check the y value. Once the value reaches the top of game canvas then it will delete the laser by calling the new function created. This new function will not only delete the laser from the const state but as well as the DOM element being the laser we actually see on screen. Enemies have not been added yet but since the shooting mechanics will be similar it is most likely that the way to delete enemy lasers will follow the same format just with the y values being in reverse order.
